## **Meredith VanAcker <br>Simulating Dispersal Across a Resistance Surface**


**Now that you have seen many full research projects saved online as GitHub repositories do you plan to use GitHub for your future projects as a way to store code and data in the cloud and to share your progress with others?**

Yes, I will use GitHub into the future, it has been a really helpful tool to keep code and projects organized. It also seems like a great resource for working with collaborators who may not be local.

**Did your project accomplish the goals that you set out for yourself in your proposal? If not, why? What was the hardest problem in your project that were able to overcome? What, if any, was a problem that you were unable to overcome in your project within the given time?**

My project did meet some of the goals that I set in the proposal but not all of them. I was able to successfully read in and clean up the raster files to begin working on them with numpy and gdal. I had a difficult time troubleshooting the dispersal probability function and still have not been able to overcome this. Currently, the loop in the exponential decay function is overwriting row values with column values instead of filling in each cell with one value. I also have created two seperate functions to consider the effects of cost and distance on dispersal although it would be better to have this as one function. I had issues with my move function, each array has the same number of non-zero values and zero values which is not what is expected from the binomial function. It was much more time consuming than I expected to manipulate and loop over the arrays which was the main reason I did not accomplish as much as I was hoping. I really want to continue working on this project as I see the simulation as a unique way of getting to know my study systems better and testing out hypotheses I have regarding effects of the landscape on host/parasite movement. So I am hoping that I will be able to get this project to a stage of simulation over the landscape with continued work outside of this course. 

**Do you feel that you've learned the skills necessary perform data analysis in Python, and to write your own program or pipeline for data analysis? What skills do you think you need to work on further, and where would you look to find more information about learning these skills?**

I gained a strong introduction to different analyses that I think would have been difficult for me to get in the same amount of time on my own. I definitely have a lot more to get comfortable with for python programming. Although I think I would be able to now pull together different tools to create a pipeline for future analyses. I need to continue working on sending jobs to a cluster - because of issues on my computer during that time in the course I wasn't able to follow along with those lessons well. I also will have to work on constucting class objects. The structure of these are difficult for me to understand. 